{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 LambTracker does not require that you use electronic identification on your sheep. All LambTracker modules can be accessed using a farm, or federal id or by name if you know all of your sheep. \
However, if you wish to implement EID in your flock you will be able to take advantage of much faster selection of sheep records when you are working within a module. \
There are a number of EID tags available for sheep at a variety of price points. Most of the tags available in the Unites States are fairly large. If you have a smaller breed of sheep they may not be suitable for your animals. \
We use and recommend the Shearwell, UK SET tags. These loop style tags are small and easy to put in even newborn lamb ears. They come in a variety of colors and can be either electronic or visual. As a bonus for United States producers, Shearwell tags are approved as official US federal scrapie identification so can be your only tag system. However, we also generally recommend double tagging all purebred sheep where you must have accurate pedigree data. It is heartbreaking to have a wonderful ewe or ram lost to the breeding flock because tags got lost and you cannot verify who this animal is. \
To effectively use EID you will also need an EID tag reader. There are a number of commercially available readers ranging from wands to panel readers to EID enabled automatic sorting gates. \
Many of these options are very expensive.\
If you are interested in EID but want a lower cost option you can build your own EID reader. Plans for an inexpensive reader can be found on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://LambTracker.com"}}{\fldrslt LambTracker.com}} This reader uses parts you buy yourself from vendors in Australia and China and simple plumbing parts to build an inexpensive handheld reader. We have been using our own home-built readers since March 2014 and they have worked well. \
\
}