{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 LambTracker is helpful to set up breeding of a pedigreed flock. LambTracker Desktop can be used to print pedigrees and data on each potential sire and on all the ewes to be bred. The shepherd can select the matings based on any criteria that he or she normally uses. \
November is the month in which the entire flock is sorted into their respective breeding groups.\
Caitlin was in charge of setting up the year\'92s breeding plan. \
She first used the LambTracker Desktop system to print out a report that showed the National Sheep Improvement Program EBV data for the entire flock. Then she printed out the pedigrees for the potential breeding rams and all the breeding ewes that were not already in her paper notebook. Like many pedigree flocks their flock had several rams from which to choose. \
As she sorted the ewes she took into account the sheep evaluations and the other data she had collected on the sheep during the past year. She also could look at the pedigrees to avoid mating any ewes to their sire or other close relatives. \
This is one area where LambTracker is less useful than paper. Often it\'92s easier to compare pedigrees by spreading them all out on a flat surface and mating the sheep on paper first. Caitlin preferred to print all the pedigrees out on all the potential breeding animals and do a floor sort to plan the matings. LambTracker desktop can perform this function but in practice it seems easier to do it on paper. \
At some point the eye of the shepherd has to make the determination on who to breed to whom. Sheep have been domesticated for thousands of years and the variation of the breeds and quality of the resulting lambs all goes back to individual shepherds making good choices on the parents of the next generation. \
Caitlin made the final decisions on how many different breeding pens to set up, which rams to use and which ewes they will be mated to. She also decided when the rams would be introduced to their respective groups of ewes and when they would be removed. Any backup rams were also selected and the dates and times of their introduction and removal were planned.\
Once the mating plan is defined the details of the rams to be used and the ewes to which they will be mated are entered into LambTracker desktop. \
Each ram has a breeding record defined for him. The record includes his identification, the date and time he is introduced to the ewes as well as a date and time he is removed and the service type. The time is included because if the breeding is via artificial insemination it may become critical to know the time that it was done. If you do not use times it is important to enter in a blank time to the record. The standard time of 00:00:00 is the default if you do not specifically select another time. \
Then to mate the ewes each ewe has a breeding record that has her identification and which ram breeding record she is part of. This prevents duplicated data by keeping the details of the ram in one place and the ewes records  in another. \
If a group of ewes are to be bred to the same ram you can select all the ewes in LambTracker desktop and then apply one ram record to them. The LambTracker database actually will create a ewe breeding record for each ewe and save it into the main database. (*As part of the recording you will also be asked to define the alert text that will be used during sorting. Updating the mating plan in LambTracker desktop automatically sets the alerts for all those ewes with the chosen text so you can easily sort them out later. *)\
Actually what it does is set an alert in the ewe record of which ram she is being bred to. \
\
Ewes may be part of more than one breeding record in any given year if they are bred to a primary ram and then later to a backup ram. In a few cases ewes may have three or more records with an artificial breeding (occasionally with two different inseminations) and then a primary and backup natural breeding. If a ram breeding record is for an artificial insemination you may also have information on whether the mating is via laparoscopic, trans-cervical or vaginal insemination and whether the semen used was fresh or frozen. These choices are based on how you set up the service_type_table when you define the ram breeding records. \
The dates of ram in and ram out are used to set up the predefined earliest possible lambing date and the last possible lambing date. These dates are set during the set-up process when you create the minimum and maximum gestation date for your breed or species. For sheep the this is initially defined to be 142 days for the start and 150 days for the end of gestation. The shepherd can choose to set their own based on their personal experience. Or in a new feature planned for LambTracker revision 5.0 is that over time LambTracker will calculate the flock average start of lambing and end of lambing dates based on the historical data gathered when you process newborn lambs. These dates will be saved and can be used to determine when the lambs will be born. \
(* Remove this as it\'92s changed The next step is to set up LambTracker Mobile to sort the ewes into their respective breeding groups. This is similar to sort for weaning and can be done using the alert system. The easiest way is to use LambTracker Desktop to select a group of ewes for each ram and set the alert to \'93Sort for ram  <insert ram name>\'94 and put in the ram name for that group. *)\
Then you download that data to the Android Handheld and head out to the sheep to do the sorting procedure.\
It was a dark and snowy day when they had to do the sorting of the sheep. Keith and Caitlin were really glad that they had installed EID tags into all their sheep. No longer did they have to scrape the lanolin and dirt off the ear tags and try to read them. No longer did they have to decipher a 6 and be sure it was not a 9, or confuse a 7 and a 2. The clipboard with what ewes were to go to which ram didn\'92t get dropped into the snow. There was no trying to follow the sheep name or tag number across to the ram name and missing the line so the ewe got sorted into the wrong pen. The LambTracker reader either worked and you could  look up the sheep data, or it did not and you had to re-read a tag. The immediate feedback from the reader of a beep that told Caitlin that the tag had been read.  \
Their farm is set up with two primary breeding pens. SO they only had to sort the breeding ewes into two different groups. \
Keith stayed in the back and Caitlin scanned the ewes. As each ewe came up he called out which ram she was to be bred to: \'93Mycroft\'94, \'93Natham\'94, \'93Natham\'94, Mycroft and so on. It took less than an hour to sort all 70 ewes into two breeding groups. It could have gone a bit faster if they had an automatic sort gate that could read the ear tags. \
Automatic sorting gates are very expensive, too rich for their small flock, but LambTracker can handle that case if the shepherd has one. Due to the cost of the automatic sorting equipment some flocks have hired a custom sorter to come and do these tasks. LambTracker supports the export of a sort list that can be imported onto those systems and perform the automatic sorting. Currently there is no connection between the sorting and the location recording in LambTracker but even if you have to enter in the data manually it is easier than the old paper system.\
Once the ewes were sorted and placed into their respective pens they went to get the selected rams. \
Bringing the boys in to sort was also simple. They found the primary breeding rams, Mycroft and Natham and scanned their tags. Using the Put ram to ewes function the ram record was automatically updated with the date and time the ram went in to his group of ewes. \
}