{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 One of the common tasks for any shepherd is deciding which sheep to cull. Some flocks will cull entirely based on age, others may evaluate sheep checking the three T\'92s of sheep (teeth, toes and tits or testicles) and culling any individual who falls short in one of these three critical criteria. \
Other flocks may set up elaborate sheep evaluations, scoring a number of both commercially important and breed characteristic traits and giving each sheep a combined score that represents the relative position of that sheep within the ranked sheep cohort. The lower scoring sheep are then on the cull list. \
Some flocks will participate in a program to calculate EBVs (Estimated Breeding Values) such as National Sheep Improvement Program (NSIP). These flocks will be collecting data on their animals at certain critical ages and getting calculations of the genetic merit for their sheep back from the data processor. Currently NSIP uses LambPlan in Australia as a data processor. \
\
There are two main activities involved in evaluation your flock. \
The first is to set up a sheep evaluation. \
Once you have decided what characteristics you plan to evaluate you can use either LambTracker Mobile on your Android handheld or LambTracker Desktop to define which characteristics you plan to look at. Using the set up a sheep evaluation screen you select the criteria and the order in which those criteria will be evaluated.\
All scored traits will be presented first. Then the real traits and finally the last group of items will be any user defined traits.\
Once the set of characteristics is defined you download the evaluation to the handheld and go out to the flock and actually perform the evaluations. \
\
(* How do I define ranking for the user defined traits? How do I calculate ranks for the real traits? Do we need to document the weights and other stuff differently?  How do I handle the scoring of weights to calculate average daily gains and so on? *)\
\
\pard\tx360\fi360\sl288\slmult1\sb160\pardirnatural
\cf0 Using LambTracker the shepherd can set up a sheep evaluation task using either the LambTracker Desktop or LambTracker Mobile. \
Each sheep can be evaluated on up to 20 different criteria. \
You may select up to 10 criteria that are given a rank of from 1 to 5. 1 is worst and 5 is best. LambTracker ships with a predefined set of these characteristics but the user can add any other criteria.\
Predefined Characteristics that are included in LambTracker are:\
Teeth Alignment\
Missing Teeth\
White on Nose\
Head\
Horn Shape\
Horn Buds \
Body\
Legs\
Udder Lumps\
White in Britch or Body\
Temperament\
Mothering Ability\
Fleece Quality\
Fleece Soft\
Fleece Length\
Fleece Crimp\
There can be up to 5 real data criteria. These would include items that have measurements like weight or scrotal circumference. In addition to setting up the item you will score you need to define what the units are for hte various items. Since different characteristics are measured in different ways each one needs the specific units of measurement.\
Predefined Real Characteristics are:\
Fleece Length\
Fleece Weight\
Fleece Micron\
Weight\
Scrotal Circumference\
Predefined Measurement Units are:\
Decimal pounds\
Kilograms\
Inches\
Centimeters\
Hours\
Days\
Microns\
There can also be up to five evaluations that are entirely user defined. The user can select the options and the text that describes those data points. \
Examples we have used include evaluating ewes during artificial insemination with a 3 item description of their estrus state with three possible options that were defined as  Vulva engorged, Mucus present and Both. \
Because no data is ever deleted in the LambTracker database you must be careful when selecting the user defined criteria. Once you have used up the 5 slots for user defined items you cannot create new user defined evaluation criteria unless you go back and remove one of those selections from all sheep in the database back to the beginning of your data collection. \
Think carefully about whether you can use a ranking scale instead. In general it\'92s better to set up a 1-5 ranking scale item rather than use up a user evaluation. \
Although any given sheep evaluation consists of no more than 20 data points as described above you can do multiple evaluations on the same sheep. \
In addition, during any given evaluation task the number of sheep in the set is counted and the rank for that sheep within that set is calculated and can be saved. (* Insert how the rank within a group is calculated here. *)\
These ranks can be used later to decide which sheep will be culled and which ones will be kept for breeding or sold. \
If you are using EID then evaluations are easy. Once you have set up your criteria and downloaded them to the handheld or set them up on the handheld as each sheep is inspected you scan their EID tag to automatically bring up the evaluation activity screen. Then the shepherd can enter in their scores. For the ranked items there are five stars on the screen. Touch the star that corresponds to the score you have for that sheep. Scores are from 1 to 5 stars. \
Real scores can be any real number. Select the data field and enter in the numbers using the numeric keypad that pops up on the screen. \
For the user defined evaluations each of your specified items will become a radio button. The LambTracker system will only allow one of the selections to be active at a time. }