{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx360\fi360\sl288\slmult1\sb160\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 LambTracker Desktop is the software package that is used to create and set up the handheld for use in the field. It is also the package that allows you to create various reports to access your flock data. \
The general concept is that you set up your defaults and predefined items, select the tasks you plan to do on the handheld and download the current data set and the tasks to the handheld. \
Once you have finished with the sheep tasks any data you have collected during the task are synced back to the desktop system.\
LambTracker Desktop has separate screens to set up all the various pre-defined notes, evaluation criteria, identification types, tag colors and so on. \
Setting up the database initially can be a difficult task. \
If you currently use a spreadsheet to store your data and choose not to enter in al the data at once then I strongly suggest using color coding to mark the cells that have already been included so you know what\'92s done and what you still need to do. Green works well to show the finished items.\
A tool we have used to enter in past data is\
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Csv2sql.com"}}{\fldrslt Csv2sql.com}}\
This tool takes a .csv file and creates either insert or update statements. You can then cut and past those into an SQLite tool to populate the database.\
Before you get going with LambTracker you need to make a basic decision. Will you try to enter in all back data at one time or will you do it in pieces. Either way is fine but there are advantages and disadvantages to each option. To help you make your choice here are some of the issues:\
Enter in all Back Data at Once\
Advantages:\
Once you get it done it\'92s done. It\'92s mostly a matter of creating the initial spreadsheets for each of the various tables and completely filling out the data. Running the Csv2sql tool to create insert statements and then getting them in. \
Disadvantages:\
It can be hard to verify that you have the data entered in accurately. There are some cross reference issues that mean that you must populate tables in the database in a specific order or you will get errors. If you have a lot of data it can take many hours before you can finally test and run LambTracker.\
Enter in Data in Pieces\
Advantages:\
You can start with the existing flock of sheep and just enter in them. \
You can avoid adding in all the cross references until you need them. \
Disadvantages:\
Updating individual records to add the data for fields you have left off is tedious and prone to errors. \
Like loading all data in initially there are a few cross reference issues but they are a bit easier to deal with as long as you avoid running LambTracker modules that require the tables until you have made the cross links. \
The second major decision you will need to make is how to populate the various defaults and lists. This is not difficult, you can certainly add the data in as you think of it but there may be reason to plan this out a bit more.\
Specifically the following table might need to be though out before you start adding in historical data:\
evaluation_trait_table - This table holds the various evaluations you will perform on the sheep. Within a given category the items you place in this table will be displayed in the order in which you added them. When you are setting up an evaluation they will show up in that order and when you are actually evaluating sheep they will be in the same order. It is worth a bit of time to think about how you actually evaluate sheep and put the evaluation trait in the same order. For example I evaluate sheep from nose to tail. So I entered in my traits starting with teeth and ending with udder and scrotal circumference. A bit of thinking at this point will save you a lot of time when you actually use LambTracker later in the field. \
location_table - This is the list of the places, fields or farms that you will be using to move sheep to and from. If you use LambTracker to manage your grazing then you need to think about how you will use this field. If you are required to keep movement data you may wish to have a catch-all premise or holding that can be used to document moving animals on and off the entire farm in addition to which field specific animals are in at any given time. \
predefined_notes_table - This table contains the notes that you commonly associate with your sheep. Again, this table is presented in LambTracker in the order in which you enter them. You may wish to look at the types of things you will routinely record for individual sheep and put the most common ones near the top of the list. Having a consistent list of the most common notes will aid you in searching for sheep with a specific note later. For example: We routinely evaluate sheep on behavior and grade sheep with good behavior or bad behavior frequently. We also like to keep sheep that will eat thistles and who are friendly so those are high on my list of predefined notes. Less common notes are further down the list. \
remove_reason_table - This table is also shown to you in the order in which you entered the choices. One key item is that including the word Died in the field will make it easier to locate sheep who were removed due to death later even if you choose to track the cause of death in the reasons.\
units_table - I strongly urge you to include both metric and Imperial units. You may receive data from other people in a form that you do not normally use. Rather than convert it to your standard it is often easier to allow LambTracker to do the conversions as required. \
service_type_table - This is where you set up the types of matings you plan. If you will be doing artificial insemination it is suggested that the service_type_table include the AI method (laparoscopic, trans-cervical or vaginal) and the semen type, fresh cooled or frozen. \
gestation_periods - LambTracker does a significant amount of data collection based on knowing the minimum, maximum and average gestation period for your breed or species. You can define these limits when you first start up\
Beyond these tables there are many other tables in the database that will be used to collect data for LambTracker. \
\
Here are the steps if you plan to enter in all data initially.\
1. Gather the data before you start. \
You will need all sheep identification\
}