{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx360\fi360\sl288\slmult1\sb160\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Once a flock owner has decided to convert the flock to using electronic id there is a lot of set up that needs to be done.\
If the flock owner want to have a very accurate and complete database then all the existing tag numbers and identification should to be added to the database. \
Depending on your flock needs LambTracker supports keeping a full lifetime history of all previous identification types as well. \
The defaults for sheep id types include:\
Federal\
Electronic\
Paint\
Farm\
Tattoo\
Split\
Notch\
Name\
If you have the data and want to include it you can start with your first sheep and all the tags or identification marks it has had up until now. Flocks that are in the United Stated federal Flock Scrapie Certification Program that have a requirement to maintain a full record of all tags can use the LambTracker system to maintain those required federal records. Reports of all the tag data can be produced for any sheep in the system. \
During the conversion to EID the shepherd will have the opportunity to delete any tags that need to be removed to make room for the electronic tag. \
A given tag record for a sheep has an identification type, the tag color for the male part of a two piece tag, the tag color for the female part of a two piece tag, the location, the date the tag was put on, the date the tag was removed and the number. \
One piece tags use the same color for both parts.\
Temporary identification like paint brands can be added if desired. \
\
\
}