{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf400
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 January on the farm is one of the slower times of the year. Once the primary breeding period has passed all the rams are removed from the ewe bunch. Caitlin and Keith typically keep their flock away from rams for two weeks to ensure they can easily identify the sire of all lambs. Depending on your flock requirements you may choose to increase or decrease the time between primer and backup breeding periods. \
(* How do we handle a ram bank being used on a bunch of ewes? What about range flocks with multiple rams in a single ewe bunch? Could we use DNA or parentage verification data to determine the sire of any lambs produced then? *) \
Caitlin and Keith went out to pull the primary rams out of the breeding groups. It was a cold clear day. Catching the rams was fairly simple, they put in fresh hay and then called the sheep over. Keith grabbed the ram by the horns and marched him over to the gate. It took both of them to prevent the ewes from following out the open gate. Sometimes it is not a good thing to have smart sheep who can identify an open gate from across the pasture. Once he was out they stashed him in a temporary pen.\
They moved to the next breeding pen and retrieved the ram from there. \
One nifty idea they had discovered is that it was a lot easier to integrate a breeding ram back into the main ram bunch if you tricked everyone into thinking they were all new.\
Earlier in the week they had purchased a quart of the cheapest, smelliest men\'92s cologne from the nearest big box store. The cologne is poured into a spray bottle. Then all the rams, both the breeding rams pulled from the ewes and the other rams are put into a small working pen together. Caitlin went into the pen and sprayed each ram\'92s flanks, top of his head between the horns and the chest area of the breeding rams. Once all the rams have their new smell the entire bunch is turned out into a fairly large pasture. Because they all smell the same they will not fight as much and any fighting that does occur is less of a risk given that there is a big area for them to run away from a larger or stronger ram who might injure them.\
Once Keith and Caitlin developed this method they had far fewer injuries during the ram re-introduction than they had had before. \
Of course most of the ewes get at least two opportunities to get pregnant, once with a primary ram and once with a backup ram. \
In between the two periods the ewes will get sorted into their backup breeding groups based on the choices made in LambTracker desktop. \
During the sorting any issues with the sheep will show up as an alert. Sheep with alerts can be checked and dealt with accordingly. \
35-45 days after the inseminations of the AI ewes is the optimal time to do an ultrasound of those ewes and see who is pregnant. If you plan to ultrasound the ewes from a live breeding it is generally recommend that you wait until 30 to 35 days after the ram is removed. \
Keith set up the LambTracker desktop system to collect ultrasound data. (* Need to decide how to handle scan data of 1, 2 or 3 lambs and perhaps storage of pictures. *)}