{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Dawn was just breaking. The air was crisp and cold but the sky was clear and there was the promise of warm sun later. Caitlin buttoned up her Carhaart jacket, grabbed the Colroy crook and the lamb bag and headed out to the lambing pasture. \
The flock was about  one third done with this first batch of lambs. Things had gone fairly well, there had been a couple of stillborn lambs and one or two minor pulls but nothing major. \
As she walked the pasture checking the sheep she pulled out the EID reader and her small handheld computer. As she checked each ewe or lamb she used the reader to read the EID tag or entered in the sheep name or any other tag she could see. She selected Look Up Sheep and the LambTracker system pulled up each lambing record for that ewe. The status of the lambs, all their identification including paint brands and the details of the lambing were immediately available. \
For ewes that had not yet lambed the system automatically pulled up the previous years data on how their lambing went. \
Caitlin walked up to Jasmine, a friendly ewe that often came up for a scratch. Even though Caitlin knew who Jasmine was she still scanned the EID tag in her right ear to bring up the data. Jasmine was down and straining but things didn\'92t look right.\
Looking at the record Caitlin discovered that Jasmine had has several difficult lambings. She required assistance for two out of the last three years. Last year she had twins who were totally tangled, heads and feet everywhere. Caitlin had spent nearly an hour extracting the twins. Fortunately both lived and they had gone on to be the top National Sheep Improvement Program EBV sheep in the flock. \
The year before she had a single lamb with head back that also needed assistance. The year before that she lambed successfully on her own. Normally a ewe with this problem would have been culled but Caitlin also learned that Jasmine was RR at Codon 171 and had a good EBV for wool characteristics. \
If Caitlin wanted to get more information she could drill down into the data and pull up full records on the entire pedigree of Jasmine and the lambs to be. The details of the EBV data on the ram Jasmine was bred to were also available. Jasmine was bred to Mycroft for this year and his lambs typically came a few days late and often were large. \
Caitlin had been working to reduce the birth weights of the flock without losing any of the average daily gains that were a key to remaining profitable in the current sheep market. \
Before implementing the LambTracker system Caitlin would carry a paper sheet with the information she thought would be useful during lambing. Invariably something was left out and after each trip to the lambing pasture she\'92d come back in to look up the stuff she missed. \
The paper sheets got torn, muddy or covered in sheep manure or birth fluids. The LambTracker handheld was not without its own set of problems. It was unreadable in full sunlight and didn\'92t handle snow or water or other fluids on the screen. A simple piece of plastic wrap over the screen solved that problem and standing so the screen was in her own shadow solved the first one. There were more rugged sunlight readable handheld computers that LambTracker could run on and they were on the list for purchase later. \
Pulling on an OB sleeve and a nitrile glove Caitlin carefully lubed up and checked. Again Jasmine had twins with tangled legs and feet. It took a bit of time but she was able to sort them out and get the lambs out both alive. \
Using LambTracker she processed the new lambs. First by selecting add a lamb and then adding in the lamb sex and lambing ease. On their farm all lambs are tagged at birth with two tags. A farm tag and an official USDA scrapie EID tag. All ewes and lambs get a paint brand as well so that they can be identified from a distance. Caitlin put in the farm tag data, scanned the EID tag, added a paint brand and marked the rearing type as twin. The LambTracker system automatically filled in the sire, the birth type and added the new lamb to the system.\
\
\
\
}